# Zensphere-APP

When I first decided to participate in the WWDC23 challenge, I wanted to build something to help me personally. Lately, I have been struggling with stress a lot, and this constant feeling of stress put my life on pause, so I wanted something to help me reduce my stress. I've landed on something called breathing exercise. While researching breathing exercises, I discovered multiple breathing methods, not only one. There are breathing exercises for focus, stress relieving, relaxation, and many more. Then came the idea of Zensphere, a breathing exercise app with three exercises the focus exercise (4-4-8 method), the stress-relieving exercise (4-7-8 method), and the relaxation exercise (4-6 method). I've used an animated sphere to help guide the user with inhaling and exhaling. Smoothing music will play while the user is doing the exercise. My app is relatively straightforward. I've used Xcode version Version 14.2; the app was written with the Swiftui framework, and I have also used the AVFoundation framework to play the music and a lot of animation.
Ok! But where does the name Zensphere come from? So let's break it out. First, we have the word zen; what does zen mean? Zen is how the Japanese pronounce the Chinese word ch-an, and ch-an is a Chinese school of Mahāyāna Buddhism. But the English meaning of zen is relaxed and not worrying about things you cannot change. And the other word is sphere. My app's main feature is an animated sphere that helps you with your breathing exercise. However, while researching, I discovered something interesting about the sphere in meditation. In Japanese culture, there is something called the zen garden. It's usually filled with sand and rocks; if you look carefully, you will see some patterns in the sand. To create this pattern in a smaller version of the garden, people use a textured sphere. Another thing that connects the sphere with this topic is Enso, a symbol in Zen Buddhism, meaning a circle of togetherness. It's drawn using only one brushstroke as a meditative practice in letting go of the mind and allowing the body to create.
